=head1 NAME

oarsh - remote shell connector for OAR batch scheduler.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<oarsh> <NODENAME>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Connect a node from the submission frontal of any node.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

B<oarsh> uses I<OpenSSH> client (the I<ssh> command) underneath to perform the connection. Thus any OpenSSH option can be used. Beware however that some I<OpenSSH> options may conflict with B<oarsh> mechanism, such as specifiing a username using I<-l john> or I<doe@>.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over

B<OAR_JOB_ID>

From the cluster's frontal or any node, specify the Id of the job B<oarsh> must connect to.

B<OAR_JOB_KEY_FILE>

Specify a job key to use in case of one was used for the job submission.
This connection method is mandatory when connecting to one node of a job from a host that does not belong the nodes managed by the same OAR server as the one the job was submitted to.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over

Connecting to a node (node23) of our job (Id: 4242) from the cluster's frontal:

> OAR_JOB_ID=4242 oarsh node23

Connecting to a node (node23) of our job (Id 4242) that was submitted using a job key (~/my_key) for instance a command such as: oarsub -k <pathname> 

> OAR_JOB_KEY_FILE=~/my_key oarsh node23

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

oarsub(1), oardel(1) oarstat(1), oarnodes(1), oarhold(1), oarresume(1)

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

 Copyright 2003 Laboratoire Id-Imag (http://www-id.imag.fr). This software is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
