=head1 NAME

oarstat - show information about jobs

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<oarstat> [-X|-Y|-D|-f] [-j jobid] [--sql SQL_properties] [-u user]
B<oarstat> [-e|-p] [-j jobid]
B<oarstat> [-X|-Y|-D] --gantt "YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss, YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss"
B<oarstat> --accounting "YYYY-MM-DD, YYYY-MM-DD"


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This command is used to show informations of jobs in OAR batch scheduler.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-f, --full>

Very detailed display.

=item B<-j, --job> job_id

Print informations from a specific job.

=item B<-e, --events>

Print job events only.

=item B<-p, --properties>

Print job properties in the same format as in the $OAR_RESOURCE_PROPERTIES_FILE file on the nodes.

=item B<-u, --user> [login]

Print informations for the current user or the one given.
 If used with --accounting, print a more detailed accounting report for the user.

=item B<--sql>

Restricts display with the SQL where clause on the table jobs (ex: "project = 'p1'")

=item B<-D, --DUMPER>

Print result in DUMPER format.

=item B<-X, --XML>

Print result in XML format.

=item B<-Y, --YAML>

Print result in YAML format.

=item B<-g, --gantt> "date_start,date_stop"

Print history of jobs and state of resources between two dates like "2006-03-30 13:49:27, 2006-04-30 13:49:27"

=item B<--accounting> "date_start,date_stop"

Shows accounting informations between two dates like "2006-03-30, 2006-04-30".
 If --user is also used, more details are shown for this particular user.
 Warning: the accounting table must be up to date. The update must be done at superuser level with the oaraccounting command. 

=item B<-V, --version>

Print OAR version number.

=item B<-h, --help>

Print help message.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

oarprint(1), oarsub(1), oardel(1), oarnodes(1), oarhold(1), oarresume(1)

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

 Copyright 2008 Laboratoire d'Informatique de Grenoble (http://www.liglab.fr). This software is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
