=head1 NAME

oarsh - remote shell connector for OAR batch scheduler.

oarcp - oarsh compagnon to copy files from node, to a node...

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<oarsh> [OPTIONS] <NODENAME> [COMMAND]

B<oarcp> [OPTIONS] [NODENAME:]<PATHNAME> [NODENAME:]<PATHNAME>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Connect a node from the submission frontal of the cluster or any node.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<oarsh> uses I<OpenSSH> client (the ssh command) underneath to perform the connection. Thus any OpenSSH option can be used. Beware however that some I<OpenSSH> options may conflict with B<oarsh> mechanism, such as specifying a username using -l johndoe or johndoe@.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over

=item B<OAR_JOB_ID>

From the frontal of the cluster or any node, specify the Id of the job B<oarsh> must connect to.

=item B<OAR_JOB_KEY_FILE>

Specify a job key to use in case of one was used for the job submission.
This connection method is mandatory when connecting to one node of a job from a host that does not belong the nodes managed by the same OAR server as the one the job was submitted to.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over

=item Connecting from within our job, from one node to another one (node23):

> oarsh node23

=item Connecting to a node (node23) of our job (Id: 4242) from the frontal of the cluster:

> OAR_JOB_ID=4242 oarsh node23

=item Connecting to a node (node23) of our job that was submitted using a job key (~/my_key) with for instance a command such as: oarsub -k ~/my_key -I

> OAR_JOB_KEY_FILE=~/my_key oarsh node23

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

oarsub(1), oardel(1) oarstat(1), oarnodes(1), oarhold(1), oarresume(1)

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

 Copyright 2003 Laboratoire Id-Imag (http://www-id.imag.fr). This software is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
