=head1 NAME

oargridsub - submit a reservation to OAR_GRID system.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<oargridsub> [B<-s> date_time][B<-q> queue_name][B<-t> type][B<-p> program_to_run][B<-w> walltime][B<-k>][B<-d> directory][B<-h>][B<-v>][B<-V>][B<-c>][B<-f> file] DESC

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This command is used to submit reservations on each OAR batch scheduler of a grid. Jobs can be a program or a script which contains description of this job.


=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item DESC is in form of 
    clusterAlias1:rdef="/nodes=1/core=2":name=nomJob:type="timesharing":prop="hostname = 'node1'",clusterAlias2:rdef="/nodes=2":name=nomJob2:prop="switch = 'sw3'",cluster3...

It defines OAR specific parameters for each clusters where the reservation will be performed.
The "rdef" keyword is the resources definition expression that you may find in a OAR2 "-l" option without the "walltime" part. You may specify some properties with the "prop=" keyword and a type with the "type=" keyword.

=item B<-s, --start_date> date_time

Specifies the date when the reservation will start (default is NOW).

=item B<-q, --queue> queue_name

Specifies the queue to use.

=item B<-t, --type> type

Specifies the type of job for all clusters (may be cluster dependent by using the "type=" keyword into the resources description)

=item B<-p, --program> program_to_run

Specify the name of the program which will be executed by the batch scheduler.

=item B<-w, --walltime> time

Specify the maximum time of the reservation (default: 1:00:00).

=item B<-k, --keys>

Generate ssh keys to use with OAR

=item B<-d, --directory> path_name

Specify the repertory where the reservation will be launched (default: HOMEDIR).

=item B<-h, --help>

Display help message with options and syntax.

=item B<-v, --verbose>

Display more verbose comments and executed commands.

=item B<-V, --VERSION>

Print oargrid version and exit.

=item B<-F, --FORCE>

continue even if there is a rejected reservation

=item B<-f, --file> file

Read command directives from the specified file.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Job submission with arguments :

=over

=item oargridsub -d ~/test -s "2005-01-07 11:00:00" -w 2:30:00 -p ~/test/prog.sh cluster1:rdef="/nodes=1/cpu=1":prop="hostname = 'node1'",cluster2:rdef="/nodes=2":prop="switch = 'sw3'":type="timesharing"


=back

-f option file exemple :

 # commentary
 DESC = "cluster1:rdef=\"/nodes=2\",cluster2:rdef=\"/nodes=3/cpu=2\""
 WALLTIME = "2:0:0"
 PROG= "/home/test/test.sh"
 DIR = "/tmp"
 TYPE = "deploy"
 STARTDATE = "2005-03-21 12:46:56"


=head1 SEE ALSO

oargriddel(1), oargridstat(1)

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

 Copyright © 2003 Laboratoire Id-Imag (http://www-id.imag.fr). This software is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
