=head1 NAME

oargridstat - get informations about reservations of the OAR_GRID system.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<oargridstat> [B<-h> | reservation_number | B<-l> reservation_number [B<-c> cluster_name [B<-j> job_id]]] [B<-X> | B<-Y> | B<-D>] [B<-w> [B<-p> polling_time][B<-m> max_polling_time]] | B<--monitor> [B<-c> cluster_name]* | B<--gantt> "dateStart,dateStop" [B<-c> cluster_name]* | B<--list_clusters> | B<-V>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This command is used to get informations about one or several reservations. Without argument, this command gives informations about all active (start_time + walltime <= now) reservations of the user .


=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-h, --help>

Display help message with options and syntax.

=item B<-l, --list_nodes> reservation_number

Connect to clusters from the reservation and get running node names.

=item B<-X, --XML>

gives the results in an XML format

=item B<-Y, --YAML>

gives the results in an XML format

=item B<-d, --dumper>

gives the results in Dumper format

=item B<-c, --cluster> cluster_name

Restrict node list to the given cluster.

=item B<-j, --job> job_id

Restrict node list to the given job batch id.

=item B<-w, --wait>

Wait for jobs on clusters to be in Running state.

=item B<-p, --polling> polling_time

Set the polling time : time in second between each job state check (default 5).

=item B<-m, --max_polling> max_polling_time

Maximum polling time in second (default 3600).

=item B<--monitor>

Gives informations about current jobs on clusters (you can specify them with several -c options). The Result is a hash in Dumper mode.

=item B<--gantt> "dateStart,dateStop"

Gives informations about jobs on clusters (you can specify them with several -c options). The Result is a hash in Dumper mode (date exemple : "2005-05-09 15:00:00,2005-05-10 15:00:00").

=item B<--list_clusters>

Print a hash table in Dumper format with all clusters registred and there properties.

=item B<-V, --VERSION>

Print oargrid version and exit.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

oargriddel(1), oargridsub(1)

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

 Copyright © 2003 Laboratoire Id-Imag (http://www-id.imag.fr). This software is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
