=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

oar_resource_add - Yet another helper script to define OAR resources 

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<oar_resource_add> -H <# of hosts> [options]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The script generate the oarproperty and oarnodesetting commands to generate resources following the host / cpu / core (/thread) hierarchy, possibly with GPU alongside.

If some resources already exists, offsets can be provided, or guessed from OAR database (reminder: each physical element (cpu, core, thread, gpu) must have a unique identifier in OAR).

This script is also a good example of how one could create resources by himself using basic script loops and the oarnodesetting command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 

=item B<-T>, B<--use-threads>

Use (create) the thread property.

=item B<-H>, B<--hosts> <#>

# of hosts.

=item B<-C>, B<--cpus> <#>

# of cpu per host.

=item B<-c>, B<--cores> <#>

# of core per cpu.

=item B<-t>, B<--threads> <#>

# of threads per core.

=item B<-g>, B<--gpus> <#>

# of gpus per host.

WARNING, not all hardware configurations are supported: For multi-GPU configurations, the # of cores per cpu must be a multiple of the # of gpus per cpu.

If not set, no gpu resources is handled.

=item B<--host-prefix> <str>

Hostname prefix (default: "node-").

=item B<--host-suffix> <str>

Hostname suffix (e.g. ".domain").

=item B<--host0> <#>

First host id to use.

=item B<--cpu0> <#>

First cpu id to use.

=item B<--core0> <#>

First core id to use.

=item B<--thread0> <#>

First thread id to use.

=item B<--gpu0> <#>

First gpu id to use.

=item B<--cpusets> <#>

# of cpusets on host (mainly useful for development purposes when one wants to emulate more cores than systems really have).

=item B<--cputopo> <list|RR>

Provide the topology for the CPUs/cores/threads affinity (see hwloc), given a ordered list of the Linux CPU ids (as used in cpuset.cpus).

Or, given the RR value, try to match a round-robin distribution of the core ids, with optionally HyperThreads as well.

=item B<--gpudevices> <#>

# of gpudevices on host (mainly useful for development purposes when one wants to emulate more GPUs than systems really have).

=item B<--gputopo> <list>

Provide the topology for the CPUs/GPUs affinity (see hwloc), given a ordered list of the Linux GPU device ids.

=item B<-A>, B<--append> <str>

Append a text string (extra properties).

=item B<-o>, B<--write-to> <file>

Write commands to file.

=item B<-p>, B<--no-create-properties>

Do not generate oarproperty commands.

=item B<-a>, B<--auto-offset>

Guess the next host/cpu/core/thread/gpu ids to use from the OAR database (unless host0/cpu0/core0/thread0/gpu0 is set).

WARNING: properties must already exist in your database or you will get errors.

=item B<-Y>, B<--yaml>

Generate YAML output.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Display usage.

=back

=head1 WARNING

oar_resource_add does not know the actual hardware topology of the target machines. cpuset and gpudevice affinity to CPU may not be correct. See hwloc for instance to find out the correct topology and affinity e.g. what logical cpu and what gpu device is actually attached to what hardware CPU, and use the --cputopo and --gputopo option accordingly.

=head1 SEE ALSO

oarnodesetting(1), oarproperty(1), oar_resources_init(1), bash(1)

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

 Copyright 2003-2018 Laboratoire d'Informatique de Grenoble (http://www.liglab.fr). This software is licensed under the GNU General Public License Version 2 or above. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

=cut


