=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

oar_resource_init - Helper script to define OAR resources 

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<oar_resource_init> I<host_list_file>

B<oar_resource_init> -H I<host_list_file>

B<oar_resource_init> -H -T I<host_list_file>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The script takes a list of hosts from the file given as parameter and generates the OAR commands to add the resources that define each of those hosts in the OAR database.
Generated commands are written by default in /tmp/oar_resources_init.cmd

<host_list_file> must contain one host per line and the hosts must have their "oar-node" service started (this script connects to the hosts via ssh on the port 6667).

The default resource hierarchy which is filled by this script is: host --> cpu --> core.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 

=item B<-H>

This option can be used when Intel HyperThreading is enabled on the nodes. So for each declared core in the OAR database, the 2 corresponding threads are assigned.

=item B<-T>

This option can be used when Intel HyperThreading is enabled on the nodes. It adds the property "thread" in the OAR database and fills it with the hierarchy: host --> cpu --> core --> thread.

=item B<host_list_file>

The path of the file containing the host list.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

The following environment variables can be set to control the script:

=over
 
=item OARCONFFILE

Path to OAR configuration file (default: /etc/oar/oar.conf).

=back

=over

=item OPENSSH_CMD

Path to the SSH command (default: /usr/bin/ssh).

=back

=over

=item OARNODES_CMD

Path to the oarnodes command (default: oarnodes). If oarnodes is not available on the local machine, one can set this variable to run oarnodes via SSH on another machine (this is the case if the oar-server package is not installed along with the oar-user package).
 
=back

=over

=item OARPROPERTY_CMD

Path to the oarproperty command (default: oarproperty).

=back

=over

=item GENERATED_COMMANDS_FILE

Path to the file to be created, containing the generated commands (default: /tmp/oar_resources_init.cmd).

=back

=cut

