=head1 NAME

oardel - delete or checkpoint job(s).

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<oardel> [-c|-b|-s|--force-terminate-finishing-job][--array][job_ids][-h][-V]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This command is used to delete or checkpoint job(s). Jobs are designed by their number.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-c, --checkpoint>

Send the checkpoint signal designed from the "--signal" oarsub command option (default is SIGUSR2) to the process launched by the job "job_id".

=item B<-s, --signal>

Send the signal given as parameter to the process launched by the job "job_id".

=item B<-b, --besteffort>

Tag specified jobs as besteffort (or remove it if they are already besteffort)

=item B<--array> 

Delete/checkpoint array job(s) passed as parameter (all the sub-jobs of the given array job(s))

=item B<--sql>

Delete/checkpoint jobs which respond to the SQL where clause on the table jobs (ex: "project = 'p1'").

=item B<--force-terminate-finishing-job>

Force to switch the jobs into the Error state when they are stuck in Finishing.

Note: the nodes where the jobs were executing will be turned into Suspected because something wrong occured if this option has to be used.


=item B<-V, --version>

Print OAR version number.

=item B<-h, --help>

Print help command message.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

oarsub(1), oarstat(1), oarnodes(1), oarhold(1), oarresume(1)

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

 Copyright 2008 Laboratoire d'Informatique de Grenoble (http://www.liglab.fr). This software is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
