=head1 NAME

oarextratime - request or query extra time for a job handled by the OAR batch scheduler.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<oarextratime> [options] <job_id> [extra_time]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This command allows users to request or query extra time for a job.

If I<extra_time> is given, the command requests the addition of some extra time to the job or update a previous request.

If I<extra_time> is not given, the command shows the current extra time status for the job.

Job must be I<running>.  Extra time is to be given as an number of seconds.

Once a request is registered, it will by handled during the next pass of scheduling and granted if it fits with other jobs.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-D, --delay-next-jobs>

Request extra time to possibly delay next batch jobs (but not advance reservations), if needed in order to fit in the resources allocation. Warning: this implies delaying any other batch jobs, including the ones from other users. Using this option may be prohibited.

=item B<-h, --help>

Print help command message.

=item B<-V, --version>

Print OAR version.

=back

=head1 NOTES

The extra time functionality allows one to increase the I<walltime> of a job, as an emergency measure when some more time is critically needed to complete a work. There is no warranty that extra time can be granted, since it depends on the resources availability (next jobs).

I<Please mind the walltime of the job and do not rely too much on extra time.>

Extra time events for a job are listed in the I<oarstat> output.

As per configuration, the extra time functionality may be disabled in your installation.

As per configuration, an extra time request may only be possible some time before the predicted end of the job.

Configuration can be set per queue.

I<Read your local documentation or ask your administrator(s) to know the configured settings.>

The extra time functionality does not support the computation of the resources shared allocation in the case of jobs of type timesharing or container/inner or placeholder/allowed.

=head1 SEE ALSO

oarstat(1), oarsub(1), oardel(1)

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

 Copyright 2003-2016 Laboratoire d'Informatique de Grenoble (http://www.liglab.fr). This software is licensed under the GNU General Public License Version 2 or above. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
