=head1 NAME

oarnodesetting - Change the state and properties of resources in OAR.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<oarnodesetting> -a -h hostname [-p "property=value" [-p ...]]

B<oarnodesetting> -h hostname [-s state] [-p "property=value" [-p ...]] [-m on | off]] [-d on | off]

B<oarnodesetting> -r resource_id [-s state] [-p "property=value" [-p ...]] [-m on | off]] [-d on | off]

B<oarnodesetting> --sql "SQL where clause"  [-s state] [-p "property=value" [-p ...]] [-m on | off]] [-d on | off]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This command is used to Change the state and properties of resources in OAR.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-r, --resource> [resource id]

Resource id of the resource to modify

=item B<-h, --hostname> [hostname]

Hostname for the resources to modify

=item B<--sql> [SQL]

Select resources to modify from database using a SQL where clause on the resource table (e.g.: "type = 'default'")

=item B<-f, --file> [file]

Get a hostname list from a file (1 hostname by line) for resources to modify

=item B<-a, --add>

Add a new resource.

=item B<-s, --state> STATE

Set the new state of the resource. Possible states are: Alive, Absent and Dead.

=item B<-m, --maintenance> [on|off]

Set/unset maintenance mode for resources, this is equivalent to setting its state to Absent and its available_upto to 0

=item B<-d, --drain> [on|off]

Prevent new job to be scheduled on resources, this is equivalent to setting the drain property to YES

=item B<-p, --property> ["property=value"]

Set the property of resources to the given value.

=item B<-p, --property> [property!]

Unset the property of resources.

=item B<-n, --nowait>

Do not wait for job ends when resources switch to Absent or Dead.

=item B<--last-property-value> [property]

Get the last value used for a property (as sorted by SQL's ORDER BY DESC)

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over

=item oarnodesetting -s Alive -h node012

=item oarnodesetting -s Absent -r 21

=item oarnodesetting -p mem=512 -h node012

=item oarnodesetting -p "cpu_model=Xeon Gold 5120" -h node012

=item oarnodesetting -p gpu! --sql "gpucount = 0"

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

 Copyright 2003-2021 Laboratoire d'Informatique de Grenoble (http://www.liglab.fr). This software is licensed under the GNU General Public License Version 2 or above. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
