=head1 NAME

oarstat - show information about jobs

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<oarstat> [-X|-Y|-J|-D|-f] [-j [jobid]|--array arrayid] [--sql SQL_properties] [-u [user]] [--array] [--compact] [--format num]

B<oarstat> [-e|-p] [-j jobid | --array arrayid]

B<oarstat> -s [-X|-Y|-J|-D] -j [jobid]

B<oarstat> [-X|-Y|-J|-D] --gantt "YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss, YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss"

B<oarstat> --accounting "YYYY-MM-DD, YYYY-MM-DD"

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This command is used to show information of jobs in OAR batch scheduler.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-f, --full>

Very detailed display. Note that this option does nothing with machine parseable outputs (like B<-J>), which contain all the available data.

=item B<-j, --job> job_id

Print information for the given job.

=item B<-e, --events>

Print job events only. Machine parseable outputs are also available when used in conjunction with correct options (like B<-J>).

=item B<-p, --properties>

Print job properties in the same format as in the $OAR_RESOURCE_PROPERTIES_FILE file on the nodes. Machine parseable outputs are also available when used in conjunction with correct options (like B<-J>). Please note that no properties will be displayed for jobs in "Waiting" state.

=item B<-s, --state>

Print only the state of a given job. It makes a minimal query to the database, optimized for scripting. Must be used with -j.

=item B<-u, --user> [login]

Print information for the current user or the given one.
If used with --accounting, print a more detailed accounting report for the user.

=item B<--array> [array_id]

Toggle the visualization of array job information.  If an array_id is provided, print information relative to the subjobs of the given array job.

=item B<-c, --compact>

Prints only one line for all the jobs belonging to a same array. The id is replaced by <N>@<id> where "N" is the number of jobs inside the array and "id" is the id of the array. The state is not relevant for an array of jobs (as some jobs may be waiting while others are running for example), so the state column always shows a dash.

=item B<--sql>

Restricts display with the SQL where clause on the table jobs (ex: "project = 'p1'")

=item B<--format>

select the text output format. Available values are:
  1: default
  2: prints system messages
  3: like default but with better naming for fields

The users can use the environment variable OAR_OARSTAT_OUTPUT_FORMAT to select the output format 1, 2 or 3.

=item B<-D, --DUMPER>

Print result in DUMPER format.

=item B<-X, --XML>

Print result in XML format.

=item B<-Y, --YAML>

Print result in YAML format.

=item B<-J, --JSON>

Print result in JSON format.

=item B<-g, --gantt> "date_start,date_stop"

Print history of jobs and state of resources between two dates like "2006-03-30 13:49:27, 2006-04-30 13:49:27"

=item B<--accounting> "date_start,date_stop"

Shows accounting information between two dates like "2006-03-30, 2006-04-30".
 If --user is also used, more details are shown for this particular user.
 Warning: the accounting table must be up to date. The update must be done at superuser level with the oaraccounting command.

=item B<-V, --version>

Print OAR version number.

=item B<-h, --help>

Print help message.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

oarprint(1), oarsub(1), oardel(1), oarnodes(1), oarhold(1), oarresume(1)

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

 Copyright 2003-2020 Laboratoire d'Informatique de Grenoble (http://www.liglab.fr). This software is licensed under the GNU General Public License Version 2 or above. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
