=head1 NAME

oarsh - remote shell connector for OAR batch scheduler.

oarcp - oarsh compagnon to copy files from a node or to a node.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<oarsh> [OPTIONS] <NODENAME> [COMMAND]

B<oarcp> [OPTIONS] [NODENAME:]<PATHNAME> [NODENAME:]<PATHNAME>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Connect a node from the submission frontal of the cluster or any node.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<oarsh> uses I<OpenSSH> client (the ssh command) underneath to perform the connection. Thus any OpenSSH option can be used. 

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over

=item B<OAR_JOB_ID>

From the frontal of the cluster or any node, specify the Id of the job B<oarsh> must connect to.

=item B<OAR_JOB_KEY_FILE>

Specify a job key oarsh must use, e.g. the one that was used for the submission of the job you want to connect to. This is mandatory when connecting to a node of a job from a host that does not belong to the nodes managed by the OAR server the job was submitted to. The -i option may be used as well.

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION

In order to provide the user with the ability to use B<oarsh> to connect both the nodes of his job or other hosts that live out of the scope of his job, B<oarsh> tries to read two configuration files: first B<~/.oarsh-host-include> then B<~/.oarsh-hosts-exclude>.

If exist, those files must contain one regular expression matching a hostname per line.

At execution time, if B<oarsh> finds in B<~/.oarsh-host-include> a match for the hostname used in the command line, it continues with the execution of B<oarsh>, skipping B<~/.oarsh-hosts-exclude> file. If not, it tries to find a match in B<~/.oarsh-hosts-exclude> and if one is found, then executes B<ssh> with the same command line. Finally, it no match is found (or for instance, if none of those files exists), it continues with the execution of B<oarsh>.

For instance, if all nodes look like I<name-XXX.domain>, one may place I<^[^\.]+-[[:digit:]]+> in B<~/.oarsh-host-include> and I<.*> in  B<~/.oarsh-hosts-exclude> and then can use B<oarsh> to connect any host.

The feature finally becomes really sexy when one considers placing a symlink to B<oarsh> named B<ssh>, and then can always use the B<ssh> command to connect any host.

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over

=item Connecting from within our job, from one node to another one (node23):

> oarsh node-23

=item Connecting to a node (node23) of our job (Id: 4242) from the frontal of the cluster:

> OAR_JOB_ID=4242 oarsh node-23

=item Connecting to a node (node23) of our job that was submitted using a job key:

> OAR_JOB_KEY_FILE=~/my_key oarsh node-23

=item Same thing but using OpenSSH-like I<-i> option:

> oarsh -i ~/my_key node-23

=back

=head1 NOTES

All OpenSSH features should be inherited by B<oarsh>, for instance X11 forwarding. However, one feature that B<oarsh> does break is the SSH Agent.

None of OpenSSH user configuration files (within I<~/.ssh> directory) are used by B<oarsh>.


=head1 SEE ALSO

oarsub(1), oardel(1) oarstat(1), oarnodes(1), oarhold(1), oarresume(1)

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

 Copyright 2003-2013 Laboratoire d'Informatique de Grenoble (http://www.liglab.fr). This software is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
